I'll be very upfront it is a sales cool
not sure if that makes you want to slam
the phone in despair or let me have 30
seconds on the
[Music]
side I'm sharing the full strategy an
absolute Noob like me used at Cold
cooling to make 100K last year hey I'm
Sam Dunning founder over at breaking
bb.com and if you want to join thousands
of Legends enjoying my weekday B2B
marketing tips stories and guides head
over to breaking bb.com and hit the
newsletter tab in this episode I'm
sharing the full tips tools strategy and
mindset you need to make cold cooling
work to drive qualified conversations
and meetings with dream clients let's
Dive In
but first a bit of background so cold
calling for me actually started as a bit
of an experiment I'm by no means in fact
far from a cold calling or sales expert
I have interviewed a bunch of sales
trainers and experts on my podcast my
top 10 B2B marketing podcast breaking
B2B folks like Benjamin Den the UK's
most hated sales trainer John barrows
Jack and Zach from we have a meeting and
many more learn a few tips from those
folks and in fact that they prach cold
calling worked I thought well I'm
spending probably an hour or two each
and every day on LinkedIn messing around
scrolling maybe doing a few comments
what if I could put that time to good
use run a bit of an experiment at the
same time test our messaging for
breaking B2B try and lead with some kind
of pattern interrupt which we'll talk
about more when I share the process talk
about the problems we fix see if they
resonate with dream clients and see if
we can set some appointments so that
time that I'm wasting messing around on
LinkedIn I could do some dials grab a
dialer try and connect to some idal
client profiles strike up some
conversations get some meetings on the
book and build up my Pipeline and
meanwhile I can have LinkedIn on my
other PC screen scroll around do some
comments do some posts and build up my
LinkedIn profile whilst I'm
experimenting with cold cooling so what
I did was at breaking B2B for example
the three cool problems we fixed says if
you're tired of seeing competitors above
you on Google organic search when
clients are searching for what you do or
perhaps you invest in SEO or paid ads
already but your website isn't
converting a steady flow of leads or
clients from the site or maybe you work
with an agency already but they're not
actually delivering results promised so
we fixed that with our unusual approach
to SEO content marketing and website so
I led with those three problems I led
with a pattern interrupt on my pitch on
cold Cooling and before I knew it I was
saying some appointments and eventually
closed a 72k USD deal and after that
several more website and SEO deals over
the course of the last year thought this
thing has some legs so I could spend two
hours a week cold Cooling in my spare
time where would have been messing
around on LinkedIn so I'm going to share
that process with you and we're going to
dive into it all right so let's dive
into the cool flow or framework that
I've been following so first and
foremost we've got what's called a
pattern interrupt which you may or may
not have heard of and that is basically
something that when this prospect that
your calling is first answering the call
we want to throw them off a bit we want
to grab their attention and essentially
make them not hang up on us so we
usually use something that's disarmingly
honest and kind of throws the prospect
back a bit because they're like why is a
sales rep being so upfront and so
transparent so my opener is
I did not coin this I've heard folks
like Benjamin den and many other sales
folk use this as a pattern interrupt so
it's hey Steve or hey Sally I'll be very
upfront it is a sales cool so I'm not
sure if that makes you want to slam the
phone or throw your phone out the window
or perhaps let me have 30 seconds and
then
decide I'll be very up front it is a
sales cool not sure if that makes you
want to slam the phone in despair or let
me have 30 seconds on the side so
essentially we saying this is a sales
call we are calling you out the blue can
I have 30 seconds or do you want to slam
the phone or Chuck your phone out the
window quite often you'll get a laugh
very occasionally people will give a
hard no we'll dive into some of the
other objections in a second but most
the time people will say something like
who are you and where you're calling
from to which you can reply something
like I'll tell you what can I quickly
whis through why it was I chose to call
you and then if you want you can end it
there or it might be worth a
conversation is that fair
most of the time they'll say yes it's
all good I've um I've run kind of inside
sales team so I know it works appreciate
that another pattern interrupt you can
try is hey Steve or hey Melissa I know
I'm an interruption can I grab 27
seconds to share why it was I chose to
call you and again you're using that
pattern interrupt you're throwing them
back by being disarmingly honest that is
a sales Co you're interrupting them and
then giving them the option to let you
have a bit of an opener once you get
granted that opener I recommend sharing
the top two or top three problems your
offer fixes on quite a few CMOS and
usually they tell me they've got a good
offer but they sometimes get a tad
frustrated as when idle clients are
searching for your services on Google
quite often competitors will sh up above
you stealing traffic or opportunities to
the website or maybe you invest a bit
already into SEO or paid ads but perhaps
it feels like the website's failing to
convert steady flow of those visitors
into qualified leads or demos for the
cell team or maybe that's not it maybe
you've got an agency doing some of this
already but it somewhat feels like
they're failing to deliver on the big
promises that they said on day one but I
get the feeling you're going to tell me
none of that's ever an issue in your
world that' be nice um it's it's
probably more of a timing thing so so
are you are you a digital agency focused
so not a feature dump not sharing how
great you are not even mentioning your
name or company name so in our case at
breaking B2B I'd say well typically I'm
calling VPS of marketing CMOS marketing
leaders and they tell me that usually
they've got a great offer but they're a
little frustrated that every time
someone searches for what you do on
Google they see one of your competitors
above you stealing traffic or
opportunities to your website or maybe
that's not it maybe you invest in SEO or
ads already but it feels like your
website is failing to convert that
hard-earned traffic into a steady stream
of qualified leads or demos for yourself
team or perhaps that's not it perhaps
you've got an agency you're partner with
with but slightly concerned that they
are not delivering right now but I get
the feeling moving on to point three I
get the feeling that none of these are
actually applicable to your world so
you're basically going for a super
negative which almost causes them to
correct that negative or you could say
something like but I get the feeling
that everything's perfect and none of
this is even slightly relevant for you
so you're basically prompting them to
correct you because as humans we like to
if someone says something weird and we
think no wrong we want to correct them
so you're actually going for no you're
trying to get a response by going super
negative and quite often straight away
they'll correct you and they might say
well no it's not perfect or they might
say yes it's super perfect to which in
my case I right might respond which is
relevant to my offer you'd have to tweak
this for your offer so in my case of
offering kind of to fix SEO issues or
website issues we might say oh is your
website generating kind of steady flow
of of leads and I'm guessing you're
going to tell me that of sales team are
fully booked and speaking to qualified
prospects and if they keep going across
the yes track and they'll have none of
it then it just might be worth moving on
to the next dial but if they are
receptive and they see they say h
nothing's quite perfect to which you
would then question and say well of
those three things of those three
problems or in your case you might list
two juicy problems which one would you
say is an issue and then just recap them
so in my case I'd recap the three issues
like is it competitors constantly above
you an organic search on Google is it
website not conver in traffic or is it
maybe a current agency not delivering
get them to pinpoint one problem to
which they they may dive into one or
they may beat around the bush so you try
and get some more clarity once they do
ask for some kind of example so can you
give me a I don't suppose you could give
me a quick example of that so let's
pretend in my example we said yeah quite
a lot of time competitors are above us
we have neglected organic search we have
neglected SEO tweak that to your offer
and then you say well okay could you
perhaps give me a quick example of of
that and they might say well we provide
this offer but when prospects search for
on Google our main competitors ahead of
us and then you might say Okay um so
what what kind of impact or how do you
think that's affecting business what
impact is that having on business or how
do you think that's affecting your
company and then we basically the whole
point of this is to get prospects that
we're calling out the blue to open up so
um at this stage once they start talking
you can even say something like I
appreciate I've already had that 30
seconds that I asked for is it okay if
we talk for a minute or so longer and
that shows even more transparency and
might get them to open up a bit more
that's an optional ad here so yeah you
want to dive into that impact it's
having on the business or how is that
affecting you or how do you feel about
that and get them to open up a bit and
hopefully they'll say well actually it's
affecting pipeline or depending on what
your offer is or it's affecting our
staff rates or it's affecting retention
or it's affecting churn rates and once
you've got an idea if there is actually
a problem there
the whole point is you want to dig into
how how expensive this problem is are
they motivated to fix it is it actually
a problem that they're bothered about
fixing that's the whole point of a
prospect in cool really to understand if
there's a problem the impact is having
the motivation if they've got some
motivation to get that problem fixed um
and you're trying to weave in a bit of
emotion you're trying to understand if
it's actually something they want to
sort out so then you might ask after
that once they've opened up a bit you've
asked a few questions depending on the
flow you might say have you tried to fix
this before I mean it's it sounds quite
annoying if you tried to do something in
house or perhaps you've tried a company
or a piece of tech or an agency and
again they might say yeah we've tried it
a few times uh didn't quite work um to
which you might say well I me it sounds
like a problem but it almost feels like
you might have given up or you might
have stopped trying to fix it and you're
hoping that they're going to correct you
to which they might say well no we
really need to solve it we just haven't
found the right partner or they might
say yeah actually it's booked on for
quarter four we we're with we're going
to sort that internally to which you
might dive in a bit deeper and say well
have you got resources in house or is
that something you're going to fix
yourself and you want to see really if
they're motivated if they've got
resources to fix it um let's pretend
they do say well yeah it's something
we're interested in doing at which stage
you're looking for an in where they
might say something like well Sam what
ises it you folks do you've asked me a
lot of questions like what is it you
actually do at some stage either earlier
or Bo by now they're probably going to
say okay you've asked me quite a lot
what is it you guys
do which you may get asked if you don't
you might weave this in naturally you
say well look if I told you that we've
helped businesses just like yourself
eliminate some of these problems forever
is that something that you'd be open to
discussing is that something you'd be
against do you think a catch up or me
giving your a sh on a Late July is that
going to be too soon or um no I think
that'd be good again good for no is that
something you'd be opposed or against to
discussing further to which they'll
probably say I guess not or no if they
say something wish you was like I guess
not you say you guess not and they you
want either get a hard no I'm not
against discussing it further or yes and
then after that let's say they do bite
and they say yeah I'm open to discussing
it say are you against setting some time
aside perhaps later this week to have a
chat around it and see if it is
something we could potentially help with
if they say sure you say have you got
your calendar available have you got
calendar open and at which stage you can
finalize a date time and date try and
send them the calendar invite whilst
you're there on the call itself and then
what you want to do to make sure they
actually show up to this meeting that
you've worked so hard to set you want to
share an agenda briefly on the call so
on this call if it's okay with you what
we'll do is I'll take a little bit of
time to kind of learn a bit more about
your world any problems you're having
and such but if you don't mind if at any
stage on that cool you don't feel that
we're a good fit to help you are you
happy to tell us no this is what's
called an upfront contract which they
they should say yes we're happy to tell
you if this a no and likewise if you if
I feel that I don't feel feel like our
company is best suited to help you do
you mind if we say no I don't feel
you're the best fit for our company I'll
even try and recommend you to one of my
peers if I know someone that's a better
match to which they'll probably say
absolutely fine cool I'm shooting across
the caner invite look forward to
speaking then one bonus is you can say
is there anyone else on your team that
you feel would be annoyed if we didn't
include them in the decision or not in
the decision rather in the appointment
um to which you're trying to get all the
execs on their team involved in the cool
so you have to do back and forth so try
and get that nailed and then the last
thing you should ask is I don't suppose
there's any reason why this date that
we've booked in that I'll be crying in
Tom afternoon cup of tea because you've
ghosted me you've not shown up that that
won't be happening will it and then
they'll probably correct you and say no
no we we'll come because you've talked
about our problems and you seem like you
know what you're talking about so I look
forward to meeting so fire over at the
calendar invite and there is a meeting
on your books but that's uh going
perfectly scenario well almost perfectly
but what if they say no at any stage or
they say that's not relevant well you
might again we're going into we're going
a bit deeper so you might say is
everything perfect right now like you
depending on what your offer is is you
getting more leads and sents or is your
kind of Staff rate really well or is
your churn rate super good and if you're
still getting a hard no and push back on
everything well you might have a some
kind of lead Magnet or something they
could you could offer that Persona in my
case I say are you against me of sharing
my free playbooks and adding you to my
email tips a lot of people say yeah
that's fine or can I connect with you on
LinkedIn I share daily tips around our n
here and again most of these people do
that and the good thing about this is
you're playing the long game so these
folks that don't immediately say yes but
maybe a bit vaguely interested you're
connecting them on LinkedIn or you're
adding them to your email list and
eventually you'll stay top of mine so if
they do need your offer or have the
problem you fixed in the future you're
going to be the one that they go to and
one last thing you can say if it's a
hard not is you can ask well can I ask
one last question before I let you go I
don't suppose you know anyone that's
less fortunate than your good self that
might be having these problems or might
be struggling with this problem that we
talked about um in another organization
so you're basically asking for referral
as a last ditch option um sometimes
they'll say yeah actually I know Steve
or Jess at excorp or sometimes they say
no but you never know if you don't ask
for that referral um but going B down to
Common
objections one you might hear straight
away when you do your opener can have 30
seconds or you want to slam the phone on
me is I don't take cold calls to which I
heard this one I can't remember who it
was from but it's I'm guessing you hate
receiving sales calls as much as I hate
making or I'm guessing you hate
receiving Cod calls as much as I hate
making them sometimes that gives me a
laugh that gives the prospect a laugh
and I'll say go on then have a few
seconds to which you can dive in you
might get kind of progress along this
strategy I've laid out but they might
say can you just send me an email to
which you say happy to send an email
what is it exactly you want to see
trying to get them to open up a little
bit more to which they might say well
can you share about kind of this this
problem you fix and you say what exactly
is is it about that problem that's kind
of that you want to discuss further
you're trying to get them to open up and
kind of you're still happy to send
content but you want to have a bit more
discussion and see if it's worth
actually setting an appointment and
perhaps they might get eventually going
to open up and talk about the problem
you can understand the impact and see if
you can actually do some business and
set an appointment later on online or if
they push push push for an email try and
see ask something like if I send you
this email is that just a nice way of
getting me off the phone if if if that's
the case I'm happy to end it now save
everyone time or they might push back
and say no I do actually want to see
this because it's on the radar for Q3
you might say sure I'll send you some
some info now on email what would you
like to see exactly and then when should
we when should we chat again so you can
get a coolback rather than an
appointment um we have a provider for
that you might say something like that's
great folks do um on a scale of 1 to 10
how are they performing they might say
seven out of 10 you might say what's
preventing them from being a 10 and
again you're trying to get an opening to
see if it's worth a conversation perhaps
picking up at a later date if not now
timing is off similar kind of thing so
perhaps when it's due for Renewal um is
there any reason why you might look to
review this in the next six months or
what would have to change for you in
order to kind of recess this and see if
there is some kind of opening or perhaps
it's not me that's not me that looks
after this this side of the business
okay uh would you would you be against
sharing who actually is responsible and
I can perhaps drop them a message on
LinkedIn so that is a rundown of the
flow that I've been using um some ways
to some common objections and other
options to stay top of mind if it's a no
for now so when it comes to the tools
for successful cold cooling strategy
data is one of the most important
factors so there's nothing more
frustrating than doing cold calling
getting through to switchboards
operators and lacking those cell phone
numbers or mobile numbers for those
Target clients you actually want
conversations meetings with so using a
great data provider full disclosure I've
partnered with ler.com to help me
sponsor this video so Lusher is a great
tool I was using anyway so good thing
about Lusher is you can quite literally
go on their Prospect
search you can then type in the location
so in my case put United Kingdom you can
choose the industry so we go after
technology software development
companies you can put in how many
employees they should have you can even
choose if they've recently had a funding
round so perhaps they've got cash to
spend on marketing or whatever your
offer is you can choose if they use
certain Tech you can specify that you
only want mobile numbers and perhaps
start emails and you can also put of
course their job title swipe at VP
marketing Chief marketing officer and
similar and as soon as you enter that
search you're presented with Target
clients that fit that idle client
profile you can then bulk select or
singly select and unlock each Prospect
you want the details for and you could
the good thing about Lusher is compared
to some other data providers you're not
locked into monthly or annual of high
value contracts you can quite literally
do as a pay as you go offer to choose
how many credits you want and then start
unlocking those download those csvs or
Excel sheets and just upload it into
your dialer and start making calls um
but yeah if you want to grab a free
trial and start with a few free credits
head over to ler.com that'll give you
some
solid data to get stuck into to begin
coold cooling so some of the other tools
that you're going to need for your code
calling strategy is you're going to want
a dialer so this actually enables you to
upload a CSV or Excel sheet of that data
that you've collected with those Target
clients and their mobile numbers their
job title and info so what a dialer does
is it enables you to quickly whiz
through rather than manually dialing on
a mobile phone or handset it does that
for you there are things called parallel
dialers or AI dialers that can make it
super easy so you can just sit back put
your headset on and it dials for you so
it saves you time manually doing it
yourself and there's a bunch of
different dialer types that you can try
out and the other piece of tech that you
may want to invest in is a CRM so what
that I'll enable you to do is for each
and every dial you make to Target
prospects you can put a note against
them so perhaps appointment set or did
not answer or call back in 6 months or
send an email or connect on LinkedIn or
add to email list whatever is relevant
so really as well as your data Styler
headset you be connecting it all to your
PC or laptop and then perhaps a CRM
those are the main pieces of kit that
you'll need to get this fired up and
running but the CRM side of things is
not exactly essential it's useful to
store all the data and take notes and
such but you might start with a more
basic way of note taking when you're
just getting started so when it comes to
the mindset of cold cooling you do need
resilience you will face a lot of
rejections perhaps some people that woke
up on the wrong side of the bed or some
people that are just straight out going
to say no even the odds swearing at you
you've got to have a bit of resilience
but if you're using a dialer the good
thing is that you can quickly flick past
those if they're being super R you can
just hang up on them and move on to the
next Prospect and from my experience
anyway despite what a lot of people say
it is a numbers game even if you make a
super targeted list not everyone's going
to answer their phone not everyone's
going to have the problems you fix not
everyone's preps going to be motivated
to fix them or maybe they're not in
Market or maybe they say call me back
later when it's relevant or send me some
more information like some of those
objections we talked about so it is a
numbers game but if you've got a right
list you got the right mindset and if
you follow this process
just like a noob like me you can see
some results if you stick to it and I do
recommend blocking out timings in your
calendar so you say look two or three
days a week perhaps more this time in
the morning this time in the afternoon
I'm going to spend an hour session it's
blocked in I can't fill that time we're
going to hit it we're stick with it and
set some appointments and there you have
it I hope you found this episode it's a
little bit different to our usual style
of use and if you do want to join
thousands of Legends enjoying past
podcast episodes daily B2B marketing
tips stories and guides head over to
breaking bb.com and hit that newsletter
Tab and with that I'll catch you on the
next one
[Music]
cheers